I wanted to make a cylindrical holder for my pin punches.  Picture a revolver
cylinder where the punches fit into the holes where the cartridges would
ordinarily go.  If all my punches were the same diameter, laying out the holes
would be an easy job using my REVOLVER program.  But the punches have varying
diameters.  So, how do I go about laying out the coordinates of the holes if I
want a uniform spacing between adjacent holes?

[Many folks make tap guides consisting of holes of various diameters drilled on
a circle in a steel cylinder.  The (varying size) holes are sized to the
different tap diameters.  It's the same problem as my punch holder problem.]

In the data file, enter the diameters of your holes in the order in which you
intend to drill them. (The example data file lists them in ascending order by
diameter but that's not a requirement - any ordering is acceptable.)

When the program runs, it first asks for the spacing you'd like between
adjacent holes.  The program default is the 0.1 I wanted but you can supply
your own value.  (Units don't matter in this program.  This is a geometry
problem...as long as you are consistent about the units you use, the answers
will be in whatever units you select.)

The program then calculates the smallest bolt circle diameter (bcd) which will
accommodate all your holes with the selected hole-to-hole spacing.  You can
select to use this default value or input a larger value.  After the bcd is
selected, the program writes a file that looks like:

Bolt circle diameter = 1.2500
Hole-to-hole spacing = 0.1236

N, hole diameter, x, y, angle(deg))

 0, 0.2656, +0.6250, +0.0000, 0.0000
 1, 0.2656, +0.5065, +0.3662, 35.8702
 2, 0.3281, +0.1650, +0.6028, 74.6899
 3, 0.3281, -0.2785, +0.5595, 116.4592
 4, 0.4063, -0.5943, +0.1934, 161.9756
 5, 0.4063, -0.5344, -0.3241, 211.2392
 6, 0.4063, -0.1031, -0.6164, 260.5027
 7, 0.4844, +0.4310, -0.4526, 313.5997

Theoretical minimum stock diameter = 1.7344
Recommended stock diameter = 1.9816

The program calculated the minimum bcd as 1.1915, but, desiring a more
convenient measurement, I rounded it up to 1.25.  This means that the actual
hole-to-hole spacing will increase, as shown, to 0.1236.  Since this spacing is
seldom a critical measurement in my applications, that is acceptable.

For each hole, the diameter of the hole is shown along with the (x,y) location
(relative to the bcd center) at which that hole is drilled.  Also shown is the
angle at which the hole is drilled for those who intend to do this on a rotary
table.

The minimum stock diameter is the theoretically smallest size of stock that
could be used.  Assuming that the stock size is not dictated by other
considerations, choose stock slightly larger than this since this theoretical
value would have the largest hole(s) tangent to the outside of the stock. A
good rule of thumb is to add twice the hole-to-hole spacing to the theoretical
diameter,

		1.7344 + 2*0.1236 = 1.9816

and use this value or round it up to the next convenient size (2 in this case).

