Martin Vinnicombe, over in Oz, asked me to write a calculator to obtain
dimensions for ANSI standard roller chain sprockets.

Most of the pertinent data is in "Machinery's Handbook" (pg. 2293 in the 23rd
edition) so only a brief recapitulation is reproduced here.

----- begin quote from MH -----

The pitch diameter is the diameter of the pitch circle that passes through the
centers of the link pins as the chain is wrapped on the sprocket.  Since the
chain pitch is measured on a straight line between the centers of adjacent
pins, the chain pitch lines form a series of chords of the sprocket pitch
circle.
...
The bottom diameter is the diameter of a circle tangent to the curve (called
the seating curve) at the bottom of the tooth gap.  It equals the pitch
diameter minus the diameter of the roller.
...
The caliper diameter is the same as the bottom diameter for a sprocket with an
even number of teeth.  For a sprocket with an odd number of teeth, it is
defined as the distance from the bottom of one tooth gap to that of the nearest
opposite tooth gap.  The caliper diameter for an even tooth sprocket is equal
to pitch diameter-roller diameter.  The caliper diameter for an odd tooth
sprocket is equal to caliper factor-roller diameter.  Here:

	caliper factor = pitch diameter * (cos(180/n))

where n=number of teeth.

The outside diameter is the diameter over the tips of the teeth.

----- end quote -----

The maximum hub diameter is, as the name suggests, is the recommended largest
permissible diameter of the hub consistent with not interfering with the chain
motion.

The calculation of all the quantities mentioned above is carried out by the
SPROCKET program using input values for:

	number of teeth in sprocket
	chain pitch (in)
	roller diameter (in)

A companion program, CHAIN, contained in this archive, computes the
center-to-center distance spacing of two sprockets if the length of the chain,
measured in pitches, and the number of teeth on the two sprockets are known.
